---
layout: post
title: Ginger Kombucha
author:
category: brewing
tags: 
comments: true
use_math: true
---

Recipe originally from
[here](http://www.thekitchn.com/recipe-ginger-kombucha-drink-recipes-from-the-kitchn-206552).
But this recipe is convoluted, so this post summarizes the steps.

## Ginger Kombucha

**Makes 1 gallon**

### Ingredients

+ 3 1/2 quarts water
+ 1 cup white sugar
+ 4 bags black tea (or 1 tablespoons loose tea)
+ 4 bags green tea (or 1 tablespoon loose tea)
+ 2 cups pre-made unflavored kombucha (from your last homemade batch or store-bought)
+ 1 scoby per fermentation jar
+ 2- to 3-inch piece fresh ginger (See recipe note)

### Steps

1. Bring the water to a boil. Remove from heat and stir in the sugar to
   dissolve.  Steep tea until the water has cooled.

2. Once the tea is cool, remove the tea bags. Stir in the pre-made kombucha. 

3. Pour the mixture into a 1-gallon glass jar and gently slide the scoby on top
   with clean hands. Cover the mouth of the jar with a few layers of
   cheesecloth or paper towels secured with a rubber band.

4. Keep the fermenting kombucha at room temperature, out of direct sunlight,
   and where it won't get jostled. Ferment for 7 to 10 days, or until taste is
   desired.

5. Remove the scoby. Measure out your starter tea from this batch of kombucha.

6. Add the kombucha to bottles. Add grated ginger evenly among bottles. Leave
   about an inch of head room in each bottle. Store the bottled kombucha at
   room-temperature out of direct sunlight and allow 1 to 3 days for the
   kombucha to carbonate.

7. Refrigerate once carbonated.



### Execution

1. Fermented the scoby on 7/10 with 3.5 Qrts water steeped in 8 bags of tea and
   1 C sugar.

2. 7/22 - Bottled kombucha with $$\sim 1$$ t finely grated ginger per 12 oz.
   Withheld 1 pint of kombucha for next batch. Adding 1 Qrt water steeped with
   2 bags of irish breakfast tea and 1/4 C sugar to the scoby for storage.
   Batch produced 4 12 oz bottles, and 1 L plastic bottle.

[Troubleshooting](http://www.phoenixhelix.com/2013/03/27/kombucha-tips-troubleshooting/)





